README.md, before:

# youtube-webos

YouTube App with extended functionalities

![Configuration Screen](https://github.com/webosbrew/youtube-webos/blob/main/screenshots/1_sm.jpg?raw=true)
![Segment Skipped](https://github.com/webosbrew/youtube-webos/blob/main/screenshots/2_sm.jpg?raw=true)

## Features

- Advertisements blocking
- [SponsorBlock](https://sponsor.ajay.app/) integration
- [Autostart](#autostart)

**Note:** Configuration screen can be opened by pressing 🟩 GREEN button on the remote.

## Pre-requisites

- Official YouTube app needs to be uninstalled before installation.

## Installation

- Use [webOS Homebrew Channel](https://github.com/webosbrew/webos-homebrew-channel) - app is published in official webosbrew repo
- Use [Device Manager app](https://github.com/webosbrew/dev-manager-desktop) - see [Releases](https://github.com/webosbrew/youtube-webos/releases) for a
  prebuilt `.ipk` binary file
- Use official webOS/webOS OSE SDK: `ares-install youtube...ipk` (for webOS SDK configuration
  see below)

## Configuration

Configuration screen can be opened by pressing 🟩 GREEN button on the remote.

### Autostart

In order to autostart an application the following command needs to be executed
via SSH or Telnet:

```sh
luna-send-pub -n 1 'luna://com.webos.service.eim/addDevice' '{"appId":"youtube.leanback.v4","pigImage":"","mvpdIcon":""}'
```

This will make "YouTube AdFree" display as an eligible input application (next
to HDMI/Live TV, etc...), and, if it was the last selected input, it will be
automatically launched when turning on the TV.

This will also greatly increase startup performance, since it will be runnning
constantly in the background, at the cost of increased idle memory usage.
(so far, relatively unnoticable in normal usage)

In order to disable autostart run this:

```sh
luna-send -n 1 'luna://com.webos.service.eim/deleteDevice' '{"appId":"youtube.leanback.v4"}'
```

## Known issues

### Keyboard/Certain remote control buttons do not work
Due to nature of Netcast compatiblity we need to use (to rewrite user-agent)
external keyboards and most remote control buttons are not passed through to
the app.

### Playback speed adjustment does not work
webOS internal browser does not support audio speed adjustment. (videos with
changed playback speed are muted) Netcast compatiblity layer breaks video speed
adjustment.

## Building

- Clone the repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/FriedChickenButt/youtube-webos.git
```

- Enter the folder and build the App, this will generate a `*.ipk` file.

```sh
cd youtube-webos

# Install dependencies (need to do this only when updating local repository / package.json is changed)
npm install

npm run build && npm run package
```

## Development TV setup

### Configuring @webosose/ares-cli with Developer Mode App

This is partially based on: https://webostv.developer.lge.com/develop/app-test/using-devmode-app/

- Install Developer Mode app from Content Store
- Enable developer mode, enable keyserver
- Download TV's private key: `http://TV_IP:9991/webos_rsa`
- Configure the device using `ares-setup-device` (`-a` may need to be replaced with `-m` if device named `webos` is already configured)
  - `PASSPHRASE` is the 6-character passphrase printed on screen in developer mode app

```sh
ares-setup-device -a webos -i "username=prisoner" -i "privatekey=/path/to/downloaded/webos_rsa" -i "passphrase=PASSPHRASE" -i "host=TV_IP" -i "port=9922"
```

### Configuring @webosose/ares-cli with Homebrew Channel / root

- Enable sshd in Homebrew Channel app
- Generate ssh key on developer machine (`ssh-keygen`)
- Copy the public key (`id_rsa.pub`) to `/home/root/.ssh/authorized_keys` on TV
- Configure the device using `ares-setup-device` (`-a` may need to be replaced with `-m` if device named `webos` is already configured)

```sh
ares-setup-device -a webos -i "username=root" -i "privatekey=/path/to/id_rsa" -i "passphrase=SSH_KEY_PASSPHRASE" -i "host=TV_IP" -i "port=22"
```

**Note:** @webosose/ares-cli doesn't need to be installed globally - you can use a package installed locally after `npm install` in this repo by just prefixing above commands with local path, like so: `node_modules/.bin/ares-setup-device ...`

## Installation

```
npm run deploy
```

## Launching

- The app will be available in the TV's app list or launch it using ares-cli.

```sh
npm run launch
```

To jump immediately into some specific video use:

```sh
npm run launch -- -p '{"contentTarget":"v=F8PGWLvn1mQ"}'
```

Commit message:

add feature to quickly toggle on/off sponsorblock

README.md, after:

# youtube-webos

YouTube App with extended functionalities

![Configuration Screen](https://github.com/webosbrew/youtube-webos/blob/main/screenshots/1_sm.jpg?raw=true)
![Segment Skipped](https://github.com/webosbrew/youtube-webos/blob/main/screenshots/2_sm.jpg?raw=true)

## Features

- Advertisements blocking
- [SponsorBlock](https://sponsor.ajay.app/) integration
- [Autostart](#autostart)

## Remote Buttons

- Press 🟩 GREEN button to open the configuration screen.
- Press 🟥 RED button to toggle on/off the SponsorBlock.

## Pre-requisites

- Official YouTube app needs to be uninstalled before installation.

## Installation

- Use [webOS Homebrew Channel](https://github.com/webosbrew/webos-homebrew-channel) - app is published in official webosbrew repo
- Use [Device Manager app](https://github.com/webosbrew/dev-manager-desktop) - see [Releases](https://github.com/webosbrew/youtube-webos/releases) for a
  prebuilt `.ipk` binary file
- Use official webOS/webOS OSE SDK: `ares-install youtube...ipk` (for webOS SDK configuration
  see below)

### Autostart

In order to autostart an application the following command needs to be executed
via SSH or Telnet:

```sh
luna-send-pub -n 1 'luna://com.webos.service.eim/addDevice' '{"appId":"youtube.leanback.v4","pigImage":"","mvpdIcon":""}'
```

This will make "YouTube AdFree" display as an eligible input application (next
to HDMI/Live TV, etc...), and, if it was the last selected input, it will be
automatically launched when turning on the TV.

This will also greatly increase startup performance, since it will be runnning
constantly in the background, at the cost of increased idle memory usage.
(so far, relatively unnoticable in normal usage)

In order to disable autostart run this:

```sh
luna-send -n 1 'luna://com.webos.service.eim/deleteDevice' '{"appId":"youtube.leanback.v4"}'
```

## Known issues

### Keyboard/Certain remote control buttons do not work
Due to nature of Netcast compatiblity we need to use (to rewrite user-agent)
external keyboards and most remote control buttons are not passed through to
the app.

### Playback speed adjustment does not work
webOS internal browser does not support audio speed adjustment. (videos with
changed playback speed are muted) Netcast compatiblity layer breaks video speed
adjustment.

## Building

- Clone the repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/FriedChickenButt/youtube-webos.git
```

- Enter the folder and build the App, this will generate a `*.ipk` file.

```sh
cd youtube-webos

# Install dependencies (need to do this only when updating local repository / package.json is changed)
npm install

npm run build && npm run package
```

## Development TV setup

### Configuring @webosose/ares-cli with Developer Mode App

This is partially based on: https://webostv.developer.lge.com/develop/app-test/using-devmode-app/

- Install Developer Mode app from Content Store
- Enable developer mode, enable keyserver
- Download TV's private key: `http://TV_IP:9991/webos_rsa`
- Configure the device using `ares-setup-device` (`-a` may need to be replaced with `-m` if device named `webos` is already configured)
  - `PASSPHRASE` is the 6-character passphrase printed on screen in developer mode app

```sh
ares-setup-device -a webos -i "username=prisoner" -i "privatekey=/path/to/downloaded/webos_rsa" -i "passphrase=PASSPHRASE" -i "host=TV_IP" -i "port=9922"
```

### Configuring @webosose/ares-cli with Homebrew Channel / root

- Enable sshd in Homebrew Channel app
- Generate ssh key on developer machine (`ssh-keygen`)
- Copy the public key (`id_rsa.pub`) to `/home/root/.ssh/authorized_keys` on TV
- Configure the device using `ares-setup-device` (`-a` may need to be replaced with `-m` if device named `webos` is already configured)

```sh
ares-setup-device -a webos -i "username=root" -i "privatekey=/path/to/id_rsa" -i "passphrase=SSH_KEY_PASSPHRASE" -i "host=TV_IP" -i "port=22"
```

**Note:** @webosose/ares-cli doesn't need to be installed globally - you can use a package installed locally after `npm install` in this repo by just prefixing above commands with local path, like so: `node_modules/.bin/ares-setup-device ...`

## Installation

```
npm run deploy
```

## Launching

- The app will be available in the TV's app list or launch it using ares-cli.

```sh
npm run launch
```

To jump immediately into some specific video use:

```sh
npm run launch -- -p '{"contentTarget":"v=F8PGWLvn1mQ"}'
```
